I'm Philip avataan managing director of
radical sports cars when we're here at
the factory in Pittsburgh my trade is
mechanic ask our mechanic left school at
15 and became a car mechanic and then
got interested in the engineering side
and didn't really drive a racecar till I
was almost 40 years old engineering
really is where it came from and then as
an amateur racer myself once had sort of
made enough money to go to go racing
started as an amateur racer and sort of
decided that nobody had actually built
the car that I really wanted to behind
so a lightweight two-seater which gave
good performance and having blown up a
dozen in pensions and so on with the
genetic motorcycle engine is the only
way to go because it's built for high
revs so the sort of vision of the first
race car became Arum our club sport car
which had no aerodynamics to talk of it
had a front splitter but no wings no
underbody motorcycle engine spaceframe
chassis nice and cheap to build our
original goal was to build something
that weighed 350 kilos could be sold at
15,000 pounds and we missed both goals
by a good margin but we we we had a good
time trying so I think the first car was
around 400 420 kilos and we had to sell
it at 18,000 pounds to make a small
margin and that that was the basis of
radical that's really where we started
the radical club sport so we started on
something like the first of November at
96 and we started drawing parts then in
November and we cut the first steel on
the 3rd of January at 97 and we drove
the car on the 29th of March so it was
it was quite an impressive timescale
considering it was an after-work job and
that's building everything else building
the chassis the body the suspension we
made everything in three months
when the third incarnation of car sports
racer three sr3 came along track days
were we're really booming I think the
the sort of core design features of the
car is to have a full two seater so they
could do track days you could have
full-sized adults oh you could share the
fun on track days with your friends or
or an instructor was a big thing and
then to be an endurance racer as well so
to have the brakes and the service
capacity and the tires that would be
durable enough to to race in longer
events one thing that makes the radicle
outstanding is the Aero grip for a cheap
cheapish affordable sports car the Aero
grip is is stunning so to get that
you've got to have a reasonably designed
Aero platform and good suspension which
communicates to the driver but the two
have got to be in balance the arrows got
to be in balance with with the chassis
design the weight distribution and the
suspension so as long as you've got
everything in equal measure it's it's
really about balance of everything but
also usually find then some of the
buffing designers get carried away and
they put in lots of auntie's anti-squat
auntie derive all of this kind of stuff
which actually numbs the sensation to
the driver so we keep all those auntie's
as we talked about to to a minimum
really there's very little anti dive on
it which means that the car does move
when you when you jump on the brakes it
does give that response that it does no
stop over little and which if you're
just looking at pure performance maybe
maybe that's a little bit detrimental
but it does communicate to the driver
that you're now stopping and and you
could with that feedback to the driver
then you can drive it really well and
that's that's why I think the radicle
Championship is so close because the
chassis communicates very very well to
the driver but that's by design
that's not by accident
I think we will always build racing cars
radical will always be for racing cars
but to do all of these things you end up
with a very good very skilled workforce
and there's 140 people here so we we now
have to sell cars we started off wanting
to sell cars we now have to sell cars
and looking for the bigger market with
the road user in mind and more and more
looking at a lot of our customers that
go racing and really want to go racing
and end up not having the time so if
they can have a car which they can use
on the road and go to track days many of
the other really really good track day
cars the the well branded ones you know
Porsche Ferrari that coming wonderful
cars fabulous piece of engineering but
in a track day you can wear out the
brakes completely and spend 3,000 pounds
renewing the brakes maybe on a Porsche
so we're looking at a car that would not
replace that Porsche but perform better
for less money and continue to perform
on the track our count will also be race
cars but people are crazy enough to put
them on the road and that gives us a
good market within largely enlarge the
suzuki hayabusa to 1500 CC and then 1550
and 1650 winda and i was just toying
with ideas and took well and we could
use two of those and two top ends and
make a v8 and it was just nothing more
than looking for some more power another
another power source with that feel
because the all the radicals with a
lightweight engine everything's in
harmony with the light engine but also
light reciprocating mass and so we came
up with the idea of building a v8 and
spoke to one or two engine designers and
chose somebody to help us do the
architecture all the structure and
basically the the gas exchange side of
the engine cylinder heads the cylinder
blocks Pistons are all Suzuki and remain
Suzuki
and then we manufacture the crankcase
the crankshaft the oil system and all of
the other bits and pieces around it it's
a testament to the to the quality and
the skill of the workforce really and
how we can just motivate them to all
think of it in a common way a common
goal and to get all those different
skills done yeah I mean you know we
you've seen around we have a door over
there where steel tubes come in one door
and barrels of sticky stuff coming the
other one and finished race cars come
out of this door you know it is quite a
big range of skills which was just sort
of developed over the years I guess
really yeah we we do joke a bit about
what we do but it's just about getting
the job done keeping your promises
really is what drives you the fear of
failure you know that it would hate to
say I'm going to do something and fail
so it's that it's that fear of failure
that makes you complete it makes you
complete the task and and look for the
next thing that people are expecting to
come from from radical
you